This question is for the rabbi.. umm! You've mentioned the story of that Jewish who was shot at the concentration camp, and I'm gona play a devil advocate for a bit and pretending I'm Sam Harris, no pundit intended of course. You stated that God was watching, that God watched the gentleman pulled the trigger. If God was watching then why didn't He made that trigger didn't work? Why didn't he made that poor individual just passed out while he was digging the grave. I believe Sam Harris would ask that kind of the question and demanded an answer.

Yeah! I appreciate that question.. uh.. the playing of devil advocate as you've said, that "Why didn't God keep the man from pulling the trigger, rather than allowing the man to pull the trigger, and then watch over him, and then bringing about some kind of judgement. I would say this to you that the supreme ethic that God has given to us is the ethic of love. It is the peak of all intellectual and emotional alignment. This thing we called 'LOVE' which places value upon the other person of worth and that something to be protected. It was interesting of all people, it was Oscar Wilde who's on his death bed in his forties, by his lover by his side Robbie Ross. He turned to Robbie and he said: “Did you love anyone of those little boys for their own sake?” It was an incredible question to ask by a man, who is hedonist, on his deathbed, in his forties… and he said: “Robbie, did you love anyone of those little boys for their own sake?” - Robbie Ross said: “No, I can't say I did”. He said: “Bring me a minister.. bring me a minister.” And it was in his magnificient poem 'The Ballad of Reading Gaol' that Oscar Wilde said: “Only Christ was big enough to cleanse his heart and forgive him for all that he has done”. The point is even a hedonist realised was that in the pleasure old soul, values and love are supreme    ethic, that can be treasured, but you can never have love without intrisically weaving into it the freedom of the will. You cannot have love without the freedom of the will. If you're compelled by some machines to a certain decision, you can never love. You can comply but you will never be choosing to express that sentiment in the reality of love. If LOVE is the supreme ethic and FREEDOM is indispensable to LOVE, and God's supreme goal for you and for me is that we will love Him with all our hearts and love our neighbours as ourselves, for Him to violate our freewill will be to violate that which is a necessary component so that love can flourish and love can be express. If you're asking for God to always stop triggers why not God stop everything else? Next time you're holding a cup of boiling water, He'll make it frozen water instead. Next time you're about to cross the street and you're gona be hit, He'll pull your legs back. What you're asking for is different entity than humanity. As wonderful as it may seem that in stopping that you think He's protecting you from that which is destructive, the greatist denial that you're asking for is the freedom of your will to be able to choose to love God with all your heart and all your soul. When you got love as supreme ethic and the freedom of the will to choose that love, all of the other contingencies are coming in and can become explained why it's possible to either choose or to reject, so that love can ultimately reign supreme. If you want compliance and somekind of mechanical response your question itself will self-destruct. You ask questions because you're free to ask it, and you're free to ask because you're free to love, and when you love Him, inspite of all the contraries you see all around us, you're trusting Him for having the supreme wisdom and the knowledge to ultimately bring a pattern out of it all. We think, for example, we know so much. A story told in mid-eastern folklorey

